## Assignment Part-1


Q1. Why do we call Python as a general purpose and high-level programming language?

Python is called as a High-Level Programming Language as it is quite smiliar to human Spoken language.In the case of Assembly Languages, if we need to store any value, we will need to assign it at a specific Memory Address but in case of High level languages we just need to assign the value to any variable.Python is a general purpose language as it can be used for almost any available use cases.

Q2. Why is Python called a dynamically typed language?

Python is called as a Dynamically Typed Language as the type of the variable is defined at runtime.
For eg: a=2
Python comes to know that a is an integer when the code runs unlike some other languages like JAVA where we need to mention the type of the variable before assigning value to it.

Q3. List some pros and cons of Python programming language?

Pros:
It is quite easy for anyone to learn as it is very close to human spoken language and has a great community support.
It has some rich libraries which can be used for Machine Learning,Image Processing,etc.
Its free and interpreted language.

Cons:
It is very slow since it runs the code line by line which makes it easier to debug but its very slow.
It is not memory optimized and consumes a lot of memory.

Q4. In what all domains can we use Python?

1.Python can be used in pretty every domain.
2.It is widely used in Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence.
3.It is widely used in Bigdata Engineering and the most famous processing framework Spark has a Python API named Pyspark for interaction with Spark.
4.It is used in Frontend and Backend Development.
5.It is used in Data Science and Analytics. 

Q5. What are variable and how can we declare them?

Variables can be defined as Containers where data can be scored.
For decalring a variable is Python--> a=2

Q6. How can we take an input from the user in Python?

a=input('Enter the Number')

Q7. What is the default datatype of the value that has been taken as an input using input() function?

String

Q8. What is type casting?

Converting one datatype to another.For eg
a=int(input('Enter a number'))

here a string incoming is converted to a Integer .This is called as Type Casting.

Q9. Can we take more than one input from the user using single input() function? If yes, how? If no, why?

Yes we can take multiple inputs from user in the same line and then split it.
for eg: a,b,c=input("Enter the value").split()------------------>user enters----> 9 10 56

Q10. What are keywords?

KeyWords can be defined as variables which are already used in Python and has some special purpose associated with it.So these Keywords should not be used in 
the development of a program.

Q11. Can we use keywords as a variable? Support your answer with reason.

No we cannot use kewords as variables. Keywords have some special purpose associated with it and hence cannot be used as variables.

Q12. What is indentation? What's the use of indentaion in Python?

Indentation is the leading space ot tabs before a code.Its very important in python to indicate a block of code.

Q13. How can we throw some output in Python?

By using print() function.

Q14. What are operators in Python?

Operators in Python are symbols and are used to do logical computation between opearnds .

Q15. What is difference between / and // operators?

'/' is used for dividing two numbers and the resultant is a float value. '//' is also used for division(floor division) and gives an integer value.

Q16. Write a code that gives following as an output.
iNeuroniNeuroniNeuroniNeuron

str='iNeuron'
ans=str*4
print(ans)

Q17. Write a code to take a number as an input from the user and check if the number is odd or even.

n = int(input("Enter a number "))
if(n%2==0):
    print("even number")
else:
    print("odd number")

Q18. What are boolean operator?

Boolean operators can have values as True or False (0 or 1)

Q19. What will the output of the following?

1 or 0---->1

0 and 0------>0

True and False and True------False

1 or 0 or 0--------->1


Q20. What are conditional statements in Python?

Conditional Statements in Python are used to define a value based on a certain condition.
eg: If ,Elif,Case


Q21. What is use of 'if', 'elif' and 'else' keywords?

If ,elif and else conditions are used to define conditional approach in programming.

if (somecondition):
code
elif (somecondition):
code
else:
code


Q22. Write a code to take the age of person as an input and if age >= 18 display "I can vote". If age is < 18 display "I can't vote".

age = int(input("Enter a number "))
if(age>=18):
    print("I can vote")
else:
    print("I can't vote")

Q23. Write a code that displays the sum of all the even numbers from the given list.

numbers = [12, 75, 150, 180, 145, 525, 50]
sum = 0

for i in numbers:
    if(i%2==0):
        sum=sum+i
    else:
        continue
    
print(sum)   
  
Q24. Write a code to take 3 numbers as an input from the user and display the greatest no as output.

n1 = int(input("Enter 1st number"))
n2 = int(input("Enter 2nd number"))
n3 = int(input("Enter 3rd number"))

if(n1>n2 and n1>n3):
    print("n1 is highest")
    
elif(n2>n3):
    print("n2 is highest")
    
else:
    print("n3 is highest")



Q25. Write a program to display only those numbers from a list that satisfy the following conditions

The number must be divisible by five

If the number is greater than 150, then skip it and move to the next number

If the number is greater than 500, then stop the loop

numbers = [12, 75, 150, 180, 145, 525, 50]


for i in numbers:
    if(i>500):
        break;
    elif(i>150):
        continue;
    elif(i%5==0):
        print(i)
    else:
        continue;

